2025年9-12月雅思口语考题题库
Part 1
1.Plants
1. Do you keep plants at home?
2. What plants did you grow when you were young?
3. Do you know anything about growing a plant?
4. Do Chinese people send plants as gifts?
【2】Art
1. Do you like art?
2. Do you like visiting art galleries?/Would you go to an art gallery if you had some free time?
3. Do you want to be an artist?/Do you think you would like to be an artist?
4. Do you like modern art or traditional art?/Do you prefer modern or traditional art?
5. Did you do much art when you were a child?
【3】Public places
1. Have you ever talked with someone you don't know in public places?
2. Do you wear headphones in public places?
3. Would you like to see more public places near where you live?
4. Do you often go to public places with your friends?
【4】Rules
1. Are there any rules for students at your school?
2. Do you think students would benefit more from more rules?
3. Do you remember a teacher who does his or her job very well?
4. Do you prefer to have more or fewer rules at school?
【5】Shoe
1. Do you like buying shoes? How often?
2. Have you ever bought shoes online?
3. How much money do you usually spend on shoes?
4. Which do you prefer, fashionable shoes or comfortable shoes?
【6】Doing something well
1. Do you have an experience that you did something well?
2. Do you have an experience that your teacher thought you did a good job?
3. Do you often tell vour friends when they do something well?
【7】Staying with old people
1. Have you ever worked with old people?
2. Are you happy to work with people who are older than you?
3. What are the benefits of being friends or working with old people?
4. Do you enjoy spending time with old people?
【8】Going out
1. Do you bring food or snacks with you when going out?
2. Do you always take your mobile phone with you when going out?
3. Do you often bring cash with you?
4. How often do you use cash?
【9】 Crowded place
1. ls the city where you live crowded?
2. Is there a crowded place near where you live?
3. Do you like crowded places?
4. Do most people like crowded places?
5. When was the last time you were in a crowded place?
【10】Museum
1. Do you often visit a museum?
2. Do you think museums are important?
3. Are there many museums in your hometown?
4. When was the last time you visited a museum?
【11】Growing vegetables/ fruits
Are you interested in growing vegetables and fruits?
2. Do many people grow vegetables in your city?
3. Do you think it's easy to grow vegetables?
4. Should schools teach students how to grow vegetables?
【12】Chatting
1. Do you like chatting with friends?
2. What do you usually chat about with friends?
3. Do you prefer to chat with a group of people orwith only one friend?
4. Do you prefer to communicate face-to-face or viasocial media?
5. Do you argue with friends?
【13】Advertisement
1. Is there an advertisement that made an impressionon you when you were a child?
2. Do you see a lot of advertising on trains or other transport?
3. Do you like advertisements?
4. What kind of advertising do you like?
【14】Borrowing/lending
1. Have you borrowed books from others?
2. Have you ever borrowed money from others?
3. Do you like to lend things to others?
4. How do you feel when people don't return things they borrowed from you?
【15】Having a break
1. How often do you take a rest for a break?
2. What do you usually do when you are resting?
3. Do you take a nap when you are taking your rest?
4. How do you feel after taking a nap?
【16】Sharing
1. Did your parents teach you to share when you were a child?
2. What kind of things do you like to share with others?
3. What kind of things are not suitable for sharing?
4. Do you have anything to share with others recently?
5. Who is the first person you would like to share good news with?
6. What kind of news do you share with your friends?

【9月新题】Part 2&Part 3
【1】 擅长音乐的朋友
Describe a friend of yours who is good at music/singing
You should say:
Who he/she is
When/where you listen to his/her music/singing
What kind of music/songs he/she is good at
And explain how you feel when listening to his music/singing

Part 3
1. What kind of music is popular in your country?
2. What kind of music do young people like?
3. What are the differences between young people's and old people's preferences in music?
4. What are the benefits of children learning a musical instrument?
5. Do you know what kind of music children like today?
6. Do you think the government should invest more money on concerts?

【2】想多了解的野生动物
Describe a wild animal that you want to know more about
You should say:
What it is
When you saw it
Why you want to know more about it
And explain What you want to know more about it

Part 3
1. Why are some people more willing to protect wild animals than others?
2. Why should we protect wild animals?
3. Do you think it's important to take children to the zoo to see animals?
4. ls it more important to protect wild animals or the environment?
5. Should people educate children to protect wild animals?
6. Why do people attach more importance to protecting animals?
【3】感兴趣的科学领域
Describe an area/subject of science (biology,robotics, etc.) that you are interested in and would like to learn more about
You should say:
Which area/subject it is
When and where you came to know this area/subject
How you get information about this area/subject
And explain why you are interested in this area/subject

Part3：
1. Why do some children not like learning science at school?
2. ls it important to study science at school?
3. Which science subject is the most important for children to learn?
4. Should people continue to study science after graduating from school?
5. How do you get to know about scientific news?
6. Should scientists explain the research process to the public?
【4】想拥有的朋友的好习惯
Describe a habit your friend has and you want to develop
You should say:
Who your friend is
What habit he/she has
When you noticed this habit
And explain why you want to develop this habit

Part3：
1. What habits should children have？
2. What should parents do to teach their children good habits？
3. What influences do children with bad habits have on other children？
4. Why do some habits change when people get older？
5. Do you think a person's good habits would influence those around him or her? How?
6. Why do we develop bad habits?
7. What can we do to get rid of bad habits?
【5】传统故事
Describe an interesting traditional story
You should say
What the story is about
When/how you knew it
Who told you the story
And explain how you felt when you first heard it

Part3：
1. What kind of stories do children like?
2. What are the benefits of bedtime stories for children?
3. Why do most children like listening to stories before bedtime?
4. What can children learn from stories?
5. Do all stories for children have happy endings？
6. ls a good storyline important for a movie?
【6】旅途中的有趣建筑
Describe an interesting building
You should say:
Where it is
What it looks like
What function it has
And explain why you think it is interesting

Part3：
1. Should all scenic spots charge an entry fee?
2. Is visiting scenic spots the best choice for us while travelling?
3. Why do some people like to live in big cities?
4. Is it necessary for tourists to go to visit landmarks when travelling in a place?
5. Which do most people prefer, living in a bungalow or in a tall building?
【7】重要的好朋友
Describe a good friend who is important to you
You should say:
Who he/she is
How/where you got to know him/her
How long you have known each other
And explain why he/she is important to you

Part 3
1. Do you think it is better for children to have a few close friends or many casual friends?
2. Do you think a child's relationship with friends can be replaced by that with other people, like parents or other family members?
3. How do children make friends at school?
4. How do children make friends when they are not at school?
5. What are the differences between friends made inside and outside the workplace?
6. Do you think it's possible for bosses and their employees to become friends?
【8】迷路
Describe an occasion when you lost your way
You should say:
Where you were
What happened
How you felt
And explain how you found your way

Part 3
1. Why do some people get lost more easily than others?
2. Do you think it is important to be able to read a map?
3. Do you think it is important to do some preparation before you travel to new places?
4. How can people find their way when they are lost?
5. ls a paper map still necessary?
6. How do people react when they get lost?
【9】想再去的旅行
Describe a trip you would like to make again
You should say:
Where and when you went
Who you made the trip with
What you did during the trip
And explain why you would like to make the trip again

Part 3
1. Why do people like travelling?
2. What should we prepare before a trip?
3. What would happen if no preparation were made before the trip?
4. Why do some people prefer to travel in their own country rather than going abroad?
【10】想提升的天赋
Describe a natural talent (sports, music,etc.) you would like to improve
You should say:
What it is
When you discovered it
How you want to improve it
And how you feel about it

Part3：
1. Do you think artists with talents should focus on their talents?
2. Is it possible for us to know whether children who are 3 or 4 years old will become musicians and painters when they grow up?
3. Why do people like to watch talent shows?
4. Do you think it is more interesting to watch famous people's or ordinary people's shows？
5. Do you think it's important to develop children's talents?
6. Why do some people like to show their talents online?

【11】童年玩具
Describe a toy you loved in your childhood
You should say:
What the toy was
Who gave it to you
How often you played with it
And explain why it was so special to you

Part3：
1. How do advertisements influence children?
2. Should advertising aimed at kids be prohibited?
3. Do you think parents should buy more toys for their kids or spend more time with them?
4. What's the difference between the toys kids play now and those they played in the past?
5. What's the difference between the toys boys play with and girls play with?
6. What are the advantages and disadvantages of modern toys?
【12】在家族企业工作的人
Describe a person you know who enjoys working for a family business (e.g. a shop,etc)
You should say:
Who he/she is
What the business is
What his/her job is
And explain why he/she enjoys working there

Part 3
1.Would you like to start a family business?
2.Would you like to work in a family business?
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of family business?
4. Why do some people choose to start their own company?
5. What family businesses do you know in your local area?
6. What makes a successful family business?
【13】优质服务
Describe a time when you received good service from a staff member in a shop
You should say:
Where the shop is
When you went to the shop
What service you received from the staff
And explain how you felt about the service

Part3：
1. Why should companies react quickly when customers have difficulties?
2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of shopping in small shops?
3. Why do some people dislike shopping in small shops?
4. What are the differences between online shopping and in-store shopping?
5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of shopping online?
6. Can consumption drive economic growth?
7. Why are shopping malls so popular in China?
【14】住所停电
Describe a time when the electricity suddenly went off at where you live
You should say:
When it happened
How long it lasted
What you did during that time
And explain how you felt about it

Part3 
1. Which is better, electric bicycles or ordinary bicycles?
2. Do you think electric bicycles will replace ordinary bicycles in the future?
3. Which is better, electric cars or petrol cars?
4. How did people manage to live without electricity in the ancient world?
5. ls it difficult for the government to replace all the petrol cars with electric cars?
6. Do people use more electricity now than before?

【15】和亲友的晚餐
Describe a great dinner you and your friend or family members enjoyed
You should say:
What you had
Who you had the dinner with
What you talked about during the dinner
And explain why you enjoyed it

Part3：
1. Do people prefer to eat out at restaurants or eat at home during the Spring Festival?
2. What food do you eat on special occasions, like during the Spring Festival or the Mid-autumn Festival?
3. Why do people like to have meals together during important festivals?
4. Is it a hassle to prepare a meal at home?
5. What do people often talk about during meals?
6. People are spending less and less time having meals with their families these days. Is this good or bad?
【16】远途旅行
Describe a long journey you had
You should say:
Where you went
Who you had the journey with
Why you had the journey
And explain how you felt about the journey

Part3：
1. Do you think it is a good choice to travel by plane?
2. What are the differences between group travelling and travelling alone?
3. What do we need to prepare for a long journey?
4. Why do some people like making long journeys?
5. Why do some people prefer to travel in their own country?
6. Why do some people prefer to travel abroad?
【17】别人向你道歉
Describe a time when someone apologized to you
You should say
When it was
Who this person is
Why he or she apologized to you
And how you felt about it

Part 3
1. Do you think people should apologize for anything wrong they do?
2. Do people in your country like to say "sorry"?
3. On what occasion do people usually apologize to others?
4. Why do some people refuse to say "sorry" to others?
5. Do you think every "sorry" is from the bottom of the heart?
6. Are women better than men at recognizing emotions?
【18】第一次尝试的兴奋活动
Describe an exciting activity you have tried for the first time
You should say
What it is
When/where you did it
Why you thought it was exciting
And explain how you felt about it

Part 3
1. Why are some people unwilling to try new things?
2. Why are some people keen on doing dangerous activities?
3. Do you think that children adapt to new things more easily than adults?
4. Do you think fear stops people from trying new things?
5. What can people learn from doing dangerous activities?
6. What are the benefits of trying new things?

【19】初次用外语与人沟通
Describe the time when you first talked with others in a foreign language
You should say:
Where you were
Who you were with
What you talked about
And explain how you felt about it

Part3：
1. At what age should children start learning a foreign language?
2. Which skill is more important, speaking or writing?
3. Does a person still need to learn other languages, if he or she is good at English?
4. Do you think minority languages will disappear?

【20】家中老物件
Describe an important old thing that your family has kept for a long time
You should say:
What it is
How/when your family first got this thing
How long your family has kept it
And explain why this thing is important to your family

Part 3
1. What kind of old things do people like to keep?
2. Why do people keep old things?
3. What are the differences between the things old people keep and those young people keep?
4. What are the differences between the things that people keep today and the things that people kept in the past?
5. What can we see in a museum?
6. What can we learn from a museum?
【21】钦佩的有创造力的人
Describe a creative person (e.g. an artist, a musician, etc.) you admire
You should say
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What his/her greatest achievement is
And explain why you think he/she is creative

Part3:
1. Do you think children should learn to play musical instruments?
2. How do artists acquire inspiration?
3. Do you think pictures and videos in news reports are important?
4. What can we do to help children keep creative?
5. How does drawing help to enhance children's creativity?
6. What kind of jobs require creativity?
【22】社交媒体趣事
Describe a time you saw something interesting on social media
You should say:
When it was
Where you saw it
What you saw
And explain why you think it was interesting

Part 3
1. Why do people like to use social media?
2. What kinds of things are popular on social media?
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using social media?
4. What do you think of making friends on social network?

【23】弄坏东西
Describe a time when you broke something
You should say:
What it was
When/where that happened
How you broke it
And explain what you did after that

Part 3
1. What kind of things are more likely to be broken by people at home?
2. What kind of people like to fix things by themselves?
3. Do you think clothes produced in the factory are of better quality than those made by hand?
4. Do you think handmade clothes are more valuable?
5. Is the older generation better at fixing things?
6. Do you think elderly people should teach young people how to fix things？
【24】钦佩的运动员
Describe a successful sports person you admire
You should say:
Who he/she is
What you know about him/her
What he/she is like in real life
What achievement he/she has made
And explain why you admire him/her

Part 3
1. Should students have physical education and do sports at school?
2. What qualities should an athlete have?
3. ls talent important in sports?
4. ls it easy to identify children's talents?
5. What is the most popular sport in your country?
6. Why are there so few top athletes?
【25】有用的书
Describe a book you read that you found useful
You should say:
What it is
When you read it
Why you think it is useful
And explain how you felt about it

Part 3
1. What are the types of books that young people like to read?
2. What's the difference between the reading habits of old people and young people?
3. What's the difference between paper books and e-books?
4. Some people say that it is easier for children who start reading from a young age to succeed. Do you agree?

【26】别人帮助下做的决定
Describe an important decision made with the help of other people
You should say:
What the decision was
Why you made the decision
Who helped you make the decision
And how you felt about it

Part 3
1. What kind of decisions do you think are meaningful?
2. What important decisions should be made by teenagers themselves?
3. Why are some people unwilling to make quick decisions?
4. Do people like to ask for advice about their personal life or their work?
5. Why do people like to ask others for advice?

【27】等待特别事情
Describe a time when you waited for something special that would happen
You should say:
What you waited for
Where you waited
Why it was special
And explain how you felt while you were waiting

Part 3
1. On what occasions do people usually need to wait?
2. Who behave better when waiting, children or adults?
3. Compared to the past, are people less patient now, why?
4. What are the positive and negative effects of waiting on society?
5. Why are some people unwilling to wait?
6. Where do children learn to be patient, at home or at school?

【28】自然之地
Describe a natural place (e.g.parks, mountains etc.)
You should say:
Where this place is
How you knew this place
What it is like
And explain why you like to visit it

Part 3
1. What kind of people like to visit natural places?
2. What are the differences between a natural place and a city?
3. Do you think that going to the park is the only wato get close to nature?
4. What can people gain from going to natural places?
5. Are there any wild animals in the city?
6. Do you think it is a good idea to let animals stay in local parks for people to see?
